Actors are required to call upon a variety
of skills and abilities when working on a
movie.
Depending on the role, they will have to display
dramatic range, showcase their comedic timing,
or show off their physicality.
And as it turns out, some of the biggest names
in Hollywood are multi-talented people who
can do much more than just act.
Everyone needs a hobby, and some turn to martial
arts to stay and shape or even prepare for
a role.
It’s common knowledge that stars need to
undergo extensive training before taking on
an action movie, but there are those who take
things to the next level.
Here are 10 famous actors you didn’t know
had serious martial arts skills.
If you like this video, give us a thumbs up
and don’t forget to subscribe!
Jason Statham
Statham has emerged as one of the best badasses
in modern action cinema and has definitely
carved out a niche for himself.
Given his reputation, it shouldn’t come
as any surprise that Statham is proficient
in martial arts.
In fact, he’s on the same skill level of
some MMA fighters, meaning he could easily
throw it down in the octagon if he wanted
to.
Kickboxing is his specialty, but Statham is
also trained in Brazilian jiu-jitsu, and all
this knowledge has gone a long way in advancing
his acting career.
Statham is famous for doing his own, unchoreographed
stunts, and he’s showing no signs of slowing
down.
Wesley Snipes
As one of the first modern comic book movies,
the original Blade had to bring something
exciting to the table to wow 1998 audiences.
The ace of their sleeve was star Wesley Snipes,
who was perfect for the lead role.
Snipes has been training in martial arts since
he was 12 years old, earning a 5th dan black
belt in Shotokan karate and a 2nd dan black
belt in hapkido.
He has also trained in a variety of other
disciplines, including kung-fu, Brazilian
jiu-jitsu, and kickboxing.
Though Blade was the best showcase for these
abilities, Snipes has put together a great
résumé of action films that prove all that
training didn’t go to waste.
Taylor Lautner
Lautner first emerged as the heartthrob for
Team Jacob enthusiasts everywhere, but the
actor is more than just a pretty face.
He began training in karate when he was six
and received a black belt at age eight.
He was even ranked number one in his category
by the American Sports Karate Association,
so his life could have turned out very differently
if he didn’t turn to acting.
His martial arts skills have helped him in
films like The Adventures of Sharkboy and
Lava Girl and were of great assistance while
training for Twilight.
Lautner hasn’t done much since Twilight
ended, but maybe he can find some use for
his karate soon.
Michael Jae White
White’s screen presence can come across
as physically imposing, even when the role
is just to sit still and listen to the Joker
in The Dark Knight.
A major reason for that is because the actor
is an extremely dedicated and gifted martial
artist.
He has no fewer than eight black belts in
shotokan, taekwondo, kobudo, goju ryu, tang
soo do, washu, and kyokushin.
White has also been training in jiu-jitsu
since the age of seven.
This impressive skill set has popped up frequently
in his career, including films like Exit Wounds,
where White starred with Steven Seagal.
With everything he knows, directors should
find plenty more parts for him.
John Cusack
When you think of John Cusack, the first movies
that come to mind are 1980s touchstones like
Stand By Me, Sixteen Candles, and Say Anything
– not exactly what you’d call action films.
But it was Say Anything that introduced the
actor to the world of martial arts.
While preparing for that film, Cusack took
up kickboxing because the character he played
was an aspiring kickboxer.
He continued training for more than two decades
afterwards and now holds a level six black
belt in trainer Benny Urquidez’s Ukidokan
kickboxing system.
Most of his roles haven’t featured this
aspect of his life, but maybe Cusack will
get a chance to show off his skills in the
future.
Ashton Kutcher
Ashton Kutcher seems like a goofy, easygoing
guy, but he could probably beat you up if
you rubbed him the wrong way.
As part of his healthy lifestyle, Kutcher
trained in Brazilian jiu-jitsu, even traveling
to the country several times to practice his
methods.
Under the guidance of trainer Ricardo De La
Riva Goded, Kutcher has achieved a black belt,
illustrating his supreme dedication to the
craft.
The actor has mostly made comedies during
his time in Hollywood, but if he ever wanted
to branch out into action, he could surely
put a strong demo reel together and make a
lasting impression.
Ed O’Neill
Famous for roles in sitcoms such as Married
With Children and Modern Family, Ed O’Neill
introduced himself to even more people this
past summer when he voiced the lovable octopus
Hank in Finding Dory.
His characters don’t usually fall into the
action realm, so it may come as a shock that
the quintessential TV dad is a skilled martial
artist.
O’Neill has trained in Brazilian jiu-jitsu
for the last 22 years and received his black
belt back in 2007.
He called it the greatest achievement of his
life, apart from his children.
He’s been nominated for two Golden Globes,
so that shows just how important martial arts
are to him.
Keanu Reeves
One of the more famous lines in The Matrix
is Neo proclaiming, “I know kung-fu,”
and Keanu Reeves could give his iconic character
a run for his money.
Getting hooked on martial arts while prepping
for the first Matrix film, Reeves has trained
in jiu-jitsu, wushu, boxing, and krav maga.
These talents have unquestionably helped him
as he emerged as one of the leading action
stars of his generation.
Reeves loves doing his own stunts, and being
in peak physical condition allows him to do
so.
He’s also had to train in judo and karate
for more recent roles like John Wick, so he’ll
just keep adding to his repertoire.
Hugh Jackman
Jackman is a man with a plethora of gifts.
He’s naturally charming, can belt out a
tune or two, and transform himself into a
homicidal mutant for the X-Men films.
Jackman’s most famous role is of course
Wolverine, and his training regiment for getting
into the proper shape has become almost as
legendary as his performances.
Jackman’s extreme commitment to the part
means he’s always game to do his own stunts.
He doesn’t put himself through all that
work just for a stuntman to take the spotlight.
Jackman has studied martial arts techniques
to help better Wolverine’s movements in
action sequences.
With only one film left before he steps away
from the franchise, we’ll be sad to see
him go.
Chloe Grace-Moretz
This youngster splashed onto the scene when
she took on the role of Hit Girl in Kick-Ass,
and she wasn’t going to back down from the
challenges of the part.
While preparing before filming, Grace-Moretz
trained with none other than Jackie Chan’s
stunt crew for three months.
That sounds like good company to have, and
the results definitely paid off.
During production, Grace-Moretz was able to
do a majority of her own stunts on location,
giving her performance an authenticity that
would have been difficult to replicate with
a double.
After watching the film, we don’t want to
mess with Hit Girl or Chloe.
Neither would end well.
These are just some of the actors who have
become skilled in martial arts – be it for
their own interests or a particular role.
Which ones did we miss?
Sound off in the comments and don’t forget
to subscribe so you can see more videos!